.TH "CHECK-KERNEL.ECLASS" "5" "Aug 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
check-kernel.eclass \- check kernel sources
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBcheck-kernel\fR eclass provides an easy interface for detecting kernel
sources and retrieving various information.
.SH "VARIABLES"
The following variables are exported by the \fBcheck-kernel\fR eclass:
.TP
.BR KV_full
Full kernel version (eg. 2.4.27-gentoo-r1)
.TP
.BR KV_major
Major kernel version (eg. 2)
.TP
.BR KV_minor
Minor kernel version (eg. 4)
.TP
.BR KV_micro
Micro kernel version (eg. 27)
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.BR check_version_h
Checks to make sure the /usr/src/linux symlink is correctly setup.  If it is not, 
this function will print a huge error message and halt the emerge process.
.TP
.BR get_KV_info
Parses the kernel's version.h to fill in the \fB${KV_full}\fR, \fB${KV_major}\fR,
\fB${KV_minor}\fR, and \fB${KV_micro}\fR variables.
.TP
\fINOTE:\fR The following functions all return shell true/false.
.TP
.BR is_2_4_kernel
Checks for kernel version 2.4.
.TP
.BR is_2_5_kernel
Checks for kernel version 2.5.
.TP
.BR is_2_6_kernel
Checks for kernel version 2.6.
.TP
.BR kernel_supports_modules
Check to see if the kernel supports modules (CONFIG_MODULES).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/check-kernel.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/check-kernel.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
