.TH CHECK-REQS.ECLASS 5 "Dec 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH NAME
check-reqs.eclass \- functions for checking proper build requirements
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBcheck-reqs\fR eclass provides a uniform interface for handling ebuilds
which require an abnormally high amount of system resources.  The variable(s)
and function(s) mentioned here should usually be set/called from \fBpkg_setup\fR.
.br

\fBNOTE\fR: Minimum criteria for use of this eclass is a build that requires
>256MB of RAM and/or >1GB of temporary or install space.
.SH VARIABLES
\fBNOTE\fR: all numerical values are evaluated as megabytes (MB).
.TP
.B CHECKREQS_ACTION = \fI"(warn|error|ignore)"\fR
Defines action to take if current system resources do not satisfy requirements.
\fBNOTE\fR: this variable is for end user only.  Ebuilds must *not* override or
set a default for this variable.
.TP
.B CHECKREQS_MEMORY = \fI"256"\fR
Defines amount of memory required.  Note that the \fBcheck-reqs\fR eclass does
not take swap space into account when checking current memory resources.
.TP
.B CHECKREQS_DISK_BUILD = \fI"1024"\fR
Defines amount of temporary build space required.
.TP
.B CHECKREQS_DISK_USR = \fI"1024"\fR
Defines amount of /usr space required.
.TP
.B CHECKREQS_DISK_VAR = \fI"1024"\fR
Defines amount of /var space required.
.SH FUNCTIONS
\fBNOTE\fR: all numerical values are evaluated as megabytes (MB).  Any values
should merely be rough estimates, and a high degree of precision should not
be implied -- for example, "2048" (or "2000") are more appropriate than "2137".
.TP
.B check_reqs
Performs resource checks based on above defined variables. If the checks fail,
the action specified by \fBCHECKREQS_ACTION\fR will be executed.  If for some
reason the \fBcheck-reqs\fR eclass is unable to determine current resources,
then no action will be performed.  This function should be called from within
\fBpkg_setup\fR.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH FILES
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/check-reqs.eclass
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
Ciaran McCreesh <ciaranm@gentoo.org>
.fi
.SH CVS HEADER
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/check-reqs.eclass.5,v 1.1.2.3 2005/05/10 11:30:32 swegener Exp $
