.TH "COLOR.MAP" "5" "Jun 2007" "Portage 2.1.3" "Portage"
.SH "NAME"
color.map \- custom color settings for Portage
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B /etc/portage/color.map
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This file contains variables that define color classes used by Portage.
Portage will check this file first for color classes settings. If no setting
of given color class is found in /etc/portage/color.map, Portage uses default
value defined internally.
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBBAD\fR = \fI"0xFF5555"\fR
Defines color used for some words occuring in bad context.
.TP
\fBBRACKET\fR = \fI"0x5555FF"\fR
Defines color used for brackets.
.TP
\fBGOOD\fR = \fI"0x55FF55"\fR
Defines color used for some words occuring in good context.
.TP
\fBHILITE\fR = \fI"0x00AAAA"\fR
Defines color used for highlighted words.
.TP
\fBINFORM\fR = \fI"0x00AA00"\fR
Defines color used for informational words.
.TP
\fBMERGE_LIST_PROGRESS\fR = \fI"0xFFFF55"\fR
Defines color used for numbers used in merge progress lists.
.TP
\fBPKG_MERGE\fR = \fI"0x00AA00"\fR
Defines color used for packages planned to be merged.
.TP
\fBPKG_MERGE_SYSTEM\fR = \fI"0x00AA00"\fR
Defines color used for packages planned to be merged and belonging to
system set.
.TP
\fBPKG_MERGE_WORLD\fR = \fI"0x55FF55"\fR
Defines color used for packages planned to be merged and belonging to
world set.
.TP
\fBPKG_NOMERGE\fR = \fI"0x0000AA"\fR
Defines color used for packages not planned to be merged.
.TP
\fBPKG_NOMERGE_SYSTEM\fR = \fI"0x0000AA"\fR
Defines color used for packages not planned to be merged and belonging to
system set.
.TP
\fBPKG_NOMERGE_WORLD\fR = \fI"0x5555FF"\fR
Defines color used for packages not planned to be merged and belonging to
world set.
.TP
\fBSECURITY_WARN\fR = \fI"0xFF5555"\fR
Defines color used for security warnings.
.TP
\fBUNMERGE_WARN\fR = \fI"0xFF5555"\fR
Defines color used for unmerge warnings.
.TP
\fBWARN\fR = \fI"0xFFFF55"\fR
Defines color used for warnings.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Arfrever Frehtes Taifersar Arahesis <Arfrever.FTA@gmail.com>
.fi
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B /etc/portage/color.map
Contains variables customizing colors.
.TP
.B /etc/make.conf
Contains other variables.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR make.conf (5),
.BR portage (5),
.BR emerge (1),
.BR ebuild (1),
.BR ebuild (5)
.TP
The \fI/usr/lib/portage/pym/output.py\fR Python module.
