.TH "DISTUTILS.ECLASS" "5" "Jun 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
distutils.eclass \- allow easier installation of distutils-based python modules
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBdistutils\fR eclass is designed to allow easier installation of
distutils-based python modules and their incorporation into the Gentoo
Linux system.  The eclass defines \fBsrc_compile\fR and \fBsrc_install\fR
for you.  You should be able to make a quick ebuild without setting up
any extra variables or functions.
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PYTHON_SLOT_VERSION = \fI"[0|2.1]"\fR
This allows you to depend on python-2.1.  This is usually only
needed by a -py21- ebuild.  Otherwise you should not have to set this.
.TP
.B DOCS = \fI"<files to give to dodoc>"\fR
This will cause \fBsrc_install\fR to install a few extra documentation
files than normal.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B distutils_python_version
This will setup the variables \fBPYVER_MAJOR\fR, \fBPYVER_MINOR\fR,
and \fBPYVER\fR with the corresponding values of the python version.  
.TP
.B distutils_python_tkinter
If the package requires tkinter support, then calling this function
will cause the ebuild to fail if tkinter support does not exist.  An
informative message will be displayed telling the user they need to
recompile python with tkinter support for the ebuild to emerge.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/distutils.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/distutils.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
