.TH "EBOOK.ECLASS" "5" "Aug 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
ebook.eclass \- easy installation of ebooks
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBebook\fR eclass makes writing ebuilds for ebooks a trivial task.
.SH "VARIABLES"
\fINOTE\fR: the following variables should be set \fBBEFORE\fR inheriting the
\fBebook\fR eclass:
.TP
.BR "DESCRIPTION"
Package description.  Defaults to "\fB${P}\fR ebook based on ebook eclass".
.TP
.BR "RDEPEND"
Run-time dependencies.  Defaults to ">=dev-util/devhelp-0.6".
.TP
.BR "EBOOKNAME"
The name of the ebook.  This variable \fImust\fR be set.
.TP
.BR "EBOOKVERSION"
The version of the ebook.  This variable \fImust\fR be set, even if there is
no version.  See the \fB${NOVERSION}\fR variable below for more information.
.TP
.BR "SRC"
The name of the file to download, minus the file extension.  This variable
defaults to \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR-\fB${EBOOKVERSION}\fR.
.TP
.BR "SRC_URI"
The ebook URI to download.  Defaults to "http://lidn.sourceforge.net/books_download/\fB${SRC}\fR.\fB${EBOOKEXT}\fR".
.TP
.BR "EBOOKEXT"
The file name extension of \fB${SRC}\fR.  Defaults to tar.gz.
.TP
.BR "EBOOKDESTDIR"
The directory inside \fB${DEVHELPROOT}\fR/books/\fB${EBOOKDIR}\fR in which the
ebook will be installed.  This variable defaults to \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR-\fB${EBOOKVERSION}\fR
or \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR if the \fB${NOVERSION}\fR variable is set.
.TP
.BR "EBOOKFROMDIR"
The directory in which the ebook's HTML files are located after unpacking
\fB${SRC_URI}\fR.  This directory is relative to \fB${WORKDIR}\fR.  This
variable defaults to \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR-\fB${EBOOKVERSION}\fR or \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR
if the \fB${NOVERSION}\fR variable is set.
.TP
.BR "BOOKDEVHELPFILE"
The file name that the ebook's book.devhelp will be installed as.  This variable
defaults to \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR-\fB${EBOOKVERSION}\fR.devhelp or \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR.devhelp
if the \fB${NOVERSION}\fR variable is set.
.TP
.BR "BOOKDESTDIR"
The directory in which the ebook's HTML will be installed into.  Defaults to
\fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR-\fB${EBOOKVERSION}\fR or \fB${EBOOKNAME}\fR is the \fB${NOVERSION}\fR
variable is set.
.TP
.BR "NOVERSION"
If this variable is not empty, all instances of \fB${EBOOKVERSION}\fR will be
removed from all variables.
.TP
.BR "DEVHELPROOT"
The location of devhelp's data directory.  Defaults to usr/share/devhelp.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
\fINOTE\fR: the following functions will be used as the defaults should they
be omitted from the ebuild.
.TP
.BR "ebook_src_install"
Installs \fB${BOOKDEVHELPFILE}\fR and all HTML files into \fB${DEVHELPROOT}\fR/books/\fB${EBOOKDESTDIR}\fR.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/ebook.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/ebook.eclass.5,v 1.2.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
