.TH "EMAINT" "1" "May 2015" "Portage VERSION" "Portage"
.SH NAME
emaint \- performs package managment related system health checks and maintenance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR emaint
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fBall\fR | \fBbinhost\fR | \fBcleanresume\fR | \
\fBmerges\fR | \fBmovebin\fR | \fBmoveinst\fR | \fBworld\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The emaint program provides a command line interface to package
management health checks and maintenance.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR all
Perform all supported commands that accept the specified option.
.TP
.BR binhost
Generate a metadata index for binary packages located in \fBPKGDIR\fR (for
download by remote clients). See the \fBPORTAGE_BINHOST\fR documentation in
the \fBmake.conf\fR(5) man page for additional information.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix
.TP
.BR cleanconfmem
Discard no longer installed config tracker entries.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix
.TP
.BR cleanresume
Discard merge lists saved for the \fBemerge\fR(1) \fB--resume\fR action.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix
.TP
.BR logs
Clean out old logs from the \fBPORT_LOGDIR\fR using the command
\fBPORT_LOGDIR_CLEAN\fR
See the \fBmake.conf\fR(5) man page for additional information as well as
enabling the \fB'clean-logs'\fR feature in emerge to do this automatically.
.br
OPTIONS: check, clean
.TP
.BR merges
Scan for failed package merges and attempt to fix those failed packages.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix, purge
.TP
.BR movebin
Perform package move updates for binary packages located in \fBPKGDIR\fR.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix
.TP
.BR moveinst
Perform package move updates for installed packages.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix
.TP
.BR sync
Perform sync actions on specified repositories.
.br
OPTIONS: allrepos, auto, repo
.TP
.BR world
Fix problems in the \fIworld\fR file.
.br
OPTIONS: check, fix
.SH DEFAULT OPTIONS (Not supported in all commands)
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-check
Check for any problems that may exist.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fix
Fix any problems that may exist.
.SH OPTIONS logs command only
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-clean
Cleans the logs from \fBPORT_LOGDIR\fR
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pretend
Sets pretend mode (same as \-c, \-\-check) for use with the \-C, \-\-clean
OPTION
.TP
.B \-t NUM, \-\-time NUM
Changes the minimum age \fBNUM\fR (in days) of the logs to be listed or
deleted.
.SH OPTIONS sync command only
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-auto
Sync repositories which have its auto\-sync setting set yes, true.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-allrepos
Sync all repositories which have a sync\-uri specified.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-repo REPO
Sync the repository specified.
.TP
.BR "\-\-sync-submodule <glsa|news|profiles>"
Restrict sync to the specified submodule(s). This option may be
specified multiple times, in order to sync multiple submodules.
Currently, this option has no effect for sync protocols other
than rsync.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via https://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Pavel Kazakov <nullishzero@gentoo.org>
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
Brian Dolbec <dolsen@gentoo.org>
.fi
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B /var/lib/portage/world
Contains a list of all user\-specified packages.
.TP
.B /var/lib/portage/config
Contains the paths and md5sums of all the config files being tracked.
.TP
.B /var/lib/portage/failed-merges
Contains the packages and timestamps of any failed merges being cleaned from
the system, and to be re-emerged.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR emerge (1),
.BR portage (5)
