.TH "EUTILS.ECLASS" "5" "Jun 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
eutils.eclass \- many extra (but common) functions that are used in ebuilds
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBeutils\fR eclass contains a suite of functions that complement
the ones that ebuild.sh already contain.  The idea is that the functions
are not required in all ebuilds but enough utilize them to have a common
home.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.BR "cdrom_get_cds " "\fI<cd1 file>\fR \fI[cd2 file]\fR \fI[cd n file]\fR"
Useful function to help ebuilds that need to read files off of a CD.  This is 
most commonly used with games.  Just specify a list of files, one per cd, that 
will be used to detect whether the cd is mounted or not.  This function 
handles all the messy details of interaction with the user.  Once this 
function returns, you will have access to the \fICDROM_ROOT\fR variable.  If 
you want the message to the user to name the CD in a particular way, then 
export the variable \fICDROM_NAME\fR before calling this function.  If you want 
to name more than one cd, and you want them to each have a different name, then 
export the variables \fICDROM_NAME_1\fR, \fICDROM_NAME_2\fR, etc...  For more 
information on multi-cd support, see \fBcdrom_load_next_cd\fR.
.TP
.BR "cdrom_load_next_cd"
Some packages are so big they come on multiple CDs.  When you're done reading 
files off a CD and want access to the next one, just call this function.  Again,
all the messy details of user interaction are taken care of for you.  Once this 
returns, just read the variable \fICDROM_ROOT\fR for the location of the mounted 
CD.  Note that you can only go forward in the CD list, so make sure you only 
call this function when you're done using the current CD.
.TP
.BR "draw_line"
Simple function to draw a line consisting of '=' the same length as $*.  So
if you run `draw_line 1234 5678` you will get back 9 '=' characters in a line.
.TP
.BR "edos2unix " "\fI<files>\fR"
A handy replacement for dos2unix, recode, fixdos, etc...  This allows you
to remove all of these text utilities from DEPEND variables because this
is a script based solution.  Just give it a list of files to convert and
they will all be changed from the DOS CRLF format to the UNIX LF format.
.TP
.BR "enewgroup " "\fI<group>\fR \fI[gid]\fR"
This function does not require you to understand how to properly add a 
group to the system.  Just give it a \fIgroup name\fR to add and \fBenewgroup\fR will
do the rest.  You may specify the \fIgid\fR for the group or allow the group to
allocate the next available one.
.TP
.BR "enewuser " "\fI<user>\fR \fI[uid]\fR \fI[shell]\fR \fI[homedir]\fR \fI[groups]\fR \fI[params]\fR"
Same as \fBenewgroup\fR, you are not required to understand how to properly add
a user to the system.  The only required parameter is the \fIusername\fR.
.br
.BR "Default Values"
.br
\fIuid\fR: next available (pass -1 to get default behavior)
.br
\fIshell\fR: /bin/false
.br
\fIhomedir\fR: /dev/null
.br
\fIgroups\fR: no groups
.br
\fIparams\fR: any other parameters \fBuseradd\fR(8) accepts; see the manpage for more details
.TP
.BR "epatch"
See the section on \fBepatch\fR below.
.TP
.BR "gen_usr_ldscript"
Generate linker scripts in /usr/lib for dynamic libs in /lib.  This is to fix linking
problems when you have the .so in /lib, and the .a in /usr/lib.  What happens is that
in some cases when linking dynamic, the .a in /usr/lib is used instead of the .so in
/lib due to gcc/libtool tweaking ld's library search path.
.TP
.BR "get_number_of_jobs"
Checks how many cpu's are present in the system and then sets -j in MAKEOPTS accordingly.
.TP
.BR "have_NPTL"
This function return true if we are using the NPTL pthreads implementation of glibc.
.TP
.BR "make_desktop_entry " "\fI<binary>\fR \fI[name]\fR \fI[icon]\fR \fI[type]\fR \fI[path]\fR"
Make a little shortcut in GNOME/KDE menus for your application.  Just pass the name
of the binary to execute and the rest will be done for you.  If you want to change
the name that will show up in the menu, pass the function a \fIname\fR parameter.  If you
want to specify an \fIicon\fR (default is \fB${PN}\fR.png) then pass a name of a graphic file
relative to /usr/share/pixmaps/ or the full path to a file.  If you want to specify the
section of the menu that the icon will install to (rather than the default determined
by \fB${CATEGORY}\fR) then pass a \fItype\fR value (see http://www.freedesktop.org/standards/menu-spec/
for valid values).  Finally, if the application needs to start up in a special directory,
pass the last value as the full \fIpath\fR name.
.TP
.BR "unpack_makeself " "\fI[makeself archive]\fR \fI[byte offset]\fR"
Unpack a makeself archive rather than relying on the script to unpack itself.  Useful for when 
the scripts use old (POSIX) syntax that is no longer supported properly.  If you don't specify 
a file to unpack, then \fB${A}\fR is used instead.  If you don't specify the offset, then the 
proper value will be located by searching the makeself script.
For more information on makeself archives, please visit: http://www.megastep.org/makeself/
.TP
.BR "unpack_pdv " "\fI<pdv archive>\fR \fI<sizeof(off_t)>\fR"
Unpack a pdv archive rather than relying on the binary to unpack itself.  Useful for when 
the static binary crashes randomly on systems and for when the binary doesn't provide a 
non-interactive extraction process.  You have to specify the off_t size since I (vapier@gentoo.org) 
am unaware of a way to extract that information out of the binary executable automatically.  
The value you pass is the size of the off_t type (in bytes) on the machine that built the 
pdv archive.  If you don't know the value yourself, try guessing the values 2, 4, or 8.  
For more information on pdv archives, please visit: http://pdv.sourceforge.net/
.SH "EPATCH"
.TP
.B "ABOUT"
\fBepatch\fR is designed to make patching easy.  It does all the common checks that
a developer would do with the \fBpatch\fR(1) command and then some.  It will attempt
to apply the patch for a range of offset values (-p0 to -p5, all relative to the working
directory when \fBepatch\fR was called).  If the patch fails to apply (by testing via
dryruns), then \fBpatch\fR will stop the emerge process by calling \fBdie\fR.  You will
be given a log file of the output of the patch attempt so as to ease debugging.  The
output of a successful patch is a pretty formatted message showing what patches were
applied.  \fBepatch\fR can be used for bulk patching or for just one or two patches.  
Additionally, it can handle patches in bzip2, gzip, compress (Z), and zip formats.
.TP
.B "USAGE"
.RS
.TP
.B "epatch " "\fI<patch file>\fR"
The most common and easiest way to use \fBepatch\fR is by just giving it the full path
to a patch file.
.TP
.B "epatch " "\fI<directory>\fR"
A more powerful use is to fill a directory with patches and then let \fBepatch\fR apply
all the patches inside it.  The patches must be in the format ??_${\fBARCH\fR}_foo.${\fBEPATCH_SUFFIX\fR}.  
This ensures that there are a set order, and you can have \fBARCH\fR specific patches.  

.br
01_all_misc-fix.patch.bz2
.br
   apply the misc-fix patch first for all arches
.br
02_sparc_another-fix.patch.bz2
.br
   apply the another-fix patch second but only on sparc
.RE
.TP
.B VARIABLES
.RS
.TP
.B "EPATCH_SOURCE" = \fI"${WORKDIR}/patch"\fR
The patch or directory of patches for \fBepatch\fR to apply.  This is set
automatically if you call \fBepatch\fR with a parameter.
.TP
.B "EPATCH_SUFFIX" = \fI"patch.bz2"\fR
When applying bulk patches this is the suffix that all patches will have.  
.TP
.B "EPATCH_OPTS" = \fI""\fR
Any extra options you may want to pass to \fBpatch\fR(1).  We can't think
of everything so why restrict you :).  The default is "" of course.
.TP
.B "EPATCH_EXCLUDE" = \fI""\fR
A space delimited list (well, actually \fB$IFS\fR delimited ...) of patch
files to skip while bulk patching.  Use only file names, not full paths.
.TP
.B "EPATCH_SINGLE_MSG" = \fI"Applying <patch name>"\fR
If you only apply a single patch, then instead of displaying the default
message you can change it to say anything you want, even 'Dont call me Radio Unit 51',
if you are so inclined of course.
.TP
.B "EPATCH_FORCE" = \fI"[yes|no]"\fR
This allows you to apply all patches in \fBEPATCH_SOURCE\fR even if they
dont match the ??_${\fBARCH\fR}_foo.${\fBEPATCH_SUFFIX\fR} file naming
convention.  By default we want you to use the above convention.
.RE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/eutils.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/eutils.eclass.5,v 1.5.2.2 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
