.TH "FONT.ECLASS" "5" "Aug 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
font.eclass \- easy, uniform font installation
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfont\fR eclass attempts to make font installation as easy as possible.
Everything that usually involves installing fonts (such as creating scalable
font indecis, updating the font cache, etc...) is transparently taken 
care of by the \fBfont\fR eclass.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Here's a simple example ebuild:
.nf
inherit font

DESCRIPTION="a collection of fonts for Nepali users"
HOMEPAGE="http://www.mpp.org.np/"
SRC_URI="mirror://gentoo/${P}.tar.bz2"

LICENSE="freedist"
SLOT="0"
KEYWORDS="alpha amd64 ppc x86"
IUSE=""

DEPEND=""

S="${WORKDIR}/${PN}"
FONT_S=${S}
FONT_SUFFIX="ttf"
.fi
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
.B "FONT_SUFFIX"
Space-delimited list of font suffixes to install.
.TP
.B "FONT_S"
Directory containing the fonts.  If omitted,  \fB${S}\fR will be used.
.TP
.B "DOCS"
Space-delimited list of documents to install.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B "font_xfont_config"
Creates font indecis for X font files and also installs a fonts.alias file,
if it exists.  This function is called by \fIfont_src_install\fR.
.TP
.B "font_xft_config"
Creates fontconfig cache.  This function is also called by \fIfont_src_install\fR.
.TP
.B "font_src_install"
Installs all fonts ending with suffixes listed in \fB${FONT_SUFFIX}\fR as well 
as any documents listed in \fB${DOCS}\fR.  This function will be used as the 
default \fIsrc_install\fR function in an ebuild that omits one.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/font.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.fi
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/font.eclass.5,v 1.2.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
