.TH FORTRAN.ECLASS 5 "Nov 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH NAME
fortran.eclass \- functions for fortran packages
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfortran\fR eclass provides an interface to ease the integration of the
various fortran compilers available.
.SH VARIABLES
\fBNOTE\fR: since the \fBfortran\fR eclass does not check to see if the
following variables are set prior to inheritance, you must ensure that if you
need to define any of them, that you do so after inheritance occurs.
.TP
.B FORTRAN
Defines a list of fortran compilers that can be used for the build.  Defaults
to 'f77'.
.TP
.B f77_CONF
Defines configure option that enables the use of the f77 compiler.  Defaults
to '--with-f77'.
.TP
.B f2c_CONF
Defines configure option that enables the use of the f2c compiler.  Defaults
to '--with-f2c'.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B fortran_conf
Displays the necessary configure options for the currently selected fortran
compiler.
.TP
.B need_fortran \fI[ profile1 ] < profile2 >\fR
Checks to see if at least one of the specified profiles is installed. Currently 
supported profiles include \fBf77\fR, \fBf2c\fR, and \fBifc\fR.
.TP
.B patch_fortran
Applies any patches located in \fB${FILESDIR}\fR named "\fB${P}\fR-COMPILER*",
where COMPILER is the fortran compiler currently selected for use.
.TP
.B fortran_pkg_setup
Default pkg_setup which calls \fBneed_fortran\fR to ensure that a suitable
fortran compiler is installed.
.TP
.B fortran_src_unpack
Default src_unpack which besides unpacking the distfile(s), calls
\fBpatch_fortran\fR to apply any compiler-specific patches.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH FILES
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/fortran.eclass
.SH AUTHORS
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH CVS HEADER
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/fortran.eclass.5,v 1.1.2.2 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
