.TH "HORDE.ECLASS" "5" "Aug 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
horde.eclass \- standardize the installation of horde packages
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBhorde\fR eclass provides generic functions to make the writing of
horde ebuilds trivial.  The \fBhorde\fR eclass also provides transparent 
support for live CVS ebuilds via the \fBcvs.eclass\fR(5) (when \fB${PN}\fR 
contains "-cvs").
.SH "VARIABLES"
.BR "HORDE_PHP_FEATURES"
A whitespace-delimited list of mod_php USE flags.  If set, 
\fIhorde_pkg_setup\fR will check to make sure that mod_php was compiled with
the specified USE flags.  If not, the build will fail, notifying the user that
they must rebuild mod_php with the specified USE flags.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.BR "horde_pkg_setup"
Handles the nasty details of the \fBwebapp.eclass\fR(5) and checks 
\fIHORDE_PHP_FEATURES\fR, if set.
.TP
.BR "horde_src_unpack"
In the case of a live CVS ebuild, this function calls \fIcvs_src_unpack\fR 
from the \fBcvs\fR eclass.  Otherwise, \fIunpack\fR is called.
.TP
.BR "horde_src_install"
Installs all files in \fB${S}\fR into the \fBwebapp\fR eclass' 
\fB${MY_HTDOCSDIR}\fR directory.  This will also installs documentation 
(the README and all files in in \fB${S}/docs/\fR).  Then the rest of the 
nasty details of the \fBwebapp.eclass\fR(5) are taken care of.
.TP
.BR "horde_pkg_postinst"
Displays various informational and/or warning messages.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5),
.BR cvs.eclass (5),
.BR webapp.eclass (5)
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/horde.eclass
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/webapp.eclass
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/cvs.eclass
.fi
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.fi
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/horde.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
