.TH "LIBTOOL.ECLASS" "5" "Aug 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
libtool.eclass \- fixes the libtool files that are distributed with some 
packages
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBlibtool\fR eclass provides an easy way to patch the libtool files 
that come with some packages.  Often times these files are outdated and 
misbehave inside of the portage build environment.
.SH "VARIABLES"
.BR "ELT_APPLIED_PATCHES"
This variable is exported by the \fBlibtool\fR eclass.  It contains a 
whitespace-delimited list of patches that were successfully applied.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B "elibtoolize " "\fI[--portage] [--reverse-deps] [--patch-only] [--remove-internal-dep=DEP_TO_REMOVE] [--shallow]\fR"
This function should be called from \fIsrc_unpack\fR.  If called with no 
arguments, it will apply a default set of patches to all occurrences of 
ltmain.sh and then run libtoolize.  The default set of patches are located 
in \fB${PORTDIR}\fR/eclass/ELT-patches.
.RS
.TP
.BR "--portage"
Apply the portage patch.
.TP
.BR "--reverse-deps"
Apply the reverse dependencies patch.  See http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=75635
for more information.
.TP
.BR "--patch-only"
If specified, libtoolize will not be run if none of the patches apply.
.TP
.BR "--remove-internal-deps=DEP_TO_REMOVE"
Replaces @REM_INT_DEP@ with DEP_TO_REMOVE.
.TP
.BR "--shallow"
Instead of recursively patching all occurrences of ltmain.sh, only patch the
ltmain.sh in \fB${S}\fR.
.RE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/libtool.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/libtool.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
