.TH "PERL-MODULE.ECLASS" "5" "Jun 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
perl-module.eclass \- handles generic perl module ebuilds
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBperl-module\fR eclass is used for the compilation, testing, and 
installation of perl modules within the portage system, following 
vanilla procedure for modules using either \fBExtUtils::MakeMaker\fR(3pm)
or \fBModule::Builder\fR(3pm).
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
.B "style" = \fI"[builder|makemaker]"\fR
This variable allows you to choose which package to use as the default
for building the module.  If you do not specify a \fIstyle\fR, then
the default \fBExtUtils::MakeMaker\fR(3pm) will be used.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B perl-module_src_prep
Create the initial Makefile.
.TP
.B perl-module_src_compile
Calls \fBperl-module_src_prep\fR if it hasn't been already.  Runs 
initial make.
.TP
.B perl-module_src_test
If invoked, runs all the tests distributed with the module.
.TP
.B perl-module_src_install
Runs `make install` (or the \fBModule::Builder\fR(3pm) equivelant if it 
is a builder module).  Also cleans build paths from pod files and 
generated perllocal.pod.
.TP
.B perl-module_pkg_setup
Calls \fBperlinfo\fR.
.TP
.B perl-module_pkg_preinst
Calls \fBperlinfo\fR.
.TP
.B perl-module_pkg_postinst
Calls \fBupdatepod\fR.
.TP
.B perl-module_pkg_prerm
Calls \fBupdatepod\fR.
.TP
.B perl-module_pkg_postrm
Calls \fBupdatepod\fR.
.TP
.B perlinfo
Updates the gentoo-pods documentation.
.TP
.B updatepod
Cleans the perllocal.pods in ARCH_LIB and SITE_LIB.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5),
.BR ExtUtils::MakeMaker (3pm),
.BR Module::Build (3pm),
.BR perl (1)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/perl-module.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Michael Cummings <mcummings@gentoo.org>
.br
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/perl-module.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
