.TH "QUICKPKG" "1" "Apr 2019" "Portage VERSION" "Portage"
.SH NAME
quickpkg \- creates portage packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quickpkg [options] <list of packages or package\-sets>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I quickpkg
can be utilized to quickly create a package for portage by
utilizing the files already on your filesystem.  This package
then can be emerged on any system.  To review syntax for
emerging binary packages, review \fBemerge\fR(1).  The upside
of this process is that you don't have to wait for the package
to unpack, configure, compile, and install before you can have
the package ready to go.  The downside is that the package will
contain the files that exist on your filesystem even if they have
modified since they were first installed.
.br
The packages, after being created, will be placed in \fBPKGDIR\fR.
This variable is defined in \fBmake.conf\fR(5) and defaults to
/var/cache/binpkgs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <list of packages or package\-sets>
Each package in the list can be of two forms.  First you can
give it the full path to the installed entry in the virtual
database.  That is, /var/db/pkg/<CATEGORY>/<PKG-VERSION>/.
The second form is a portage depend atom or a portage package
set.  The atom or set is of the same form that you would give
\fBemerge\fR if you wanted to emerge something.
See \fBebuild\fR(5) for full definition.
.TP
.BR "\-\-ignore\-default\-opts"
Causes the \fIQUICKPKG_DEFAULT_OPTS\fR environment variable to be ignored.
.TP
.BR "\-\-include\-config < y | n >"
Include all files protected by CONFIG_PROTECT (as a security precaution,
default is 'n').
.TP
.BR "\-\-include\-unmodified\-config < y | n >"
Include files protected by CONFIG_PROTECT that have not been modified
since installation (as a security precaution, default is 'n').
.TP
.BR \-\-umask=UMASK
The umask used during package creation (default is 0077).
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.B quickpkg
/var/db/pkg/dev-python/pyogg-1.1
.br
.B quickpkg
planeshift
.br
.B quickpkg
=apache-1.3.27-r1
.br
.B quickpkg
=net-www/apache-2*
.br
.B quickpkg
@system
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via https://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Terry Chan (original author)
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org> (revamped version)
.fi
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B /etc/portage/make.conf
The \fBPKGDIR\fR variable is defined here.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5),
.BR make.conf (5)
