.TH "RPM.ECLASS" "5" "Jun 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
rpm.eclass \- convienence class for extracting RPM's
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBrpm\fR eclass exists in order to unpack RPM's for you.  This
way developers dont have to keep employing their own tricks just to
extract the source archives from an RPM.  The eclass will define the
\fBsrc_unpack\fR function and do all the unpacking for you.  The
unpack function will utilize either \fBrpmoffset\fR or \fBrpm2cpio\fR to
unpack the RPM.  If both exist on the system, then \fBrpm2cpio\fR
will be utilized.
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
.B USE_RPMOFFSET_ONLY = \fI"[0|1]"\fR
If you want to force the RPM extractor to utilize \fBrpmoffset\fR
even if \fBrpm2cpio\fR is detected, then just set this variable to 1.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B rpm_unpack \fI"<file to unpack>"\fR
Unpack an RPM file in the same manner that \fBunpack\fR unpacks any
other archive.  The contents of the RPM will be extracted to \fB${WORKDIR}\fR.
.TP
.B rpm_src_unpack
This replacement for \fBsrc_unpack\fR will go through \fB${A}\fR and
unpack all the files.  If the file is an RPM, then \fBrpm_unpack\fR
will be called.  Otherwise the default \fBunpack\fR function will be
utilized.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/rpm.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/rpm.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
