.TH "SSL-CERT.ECLASS" "5" "Oct 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
ssl-cert.eclass \- provides common SSL certificates installation routines
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBssl-cert\fR eclass contains a function used to generate and
install SSL certificates and related files for testing and initial
configuration purposes of TLS/SSL compatible services.
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBSSL_DAYS =\fR \fI"730"\fR (2 years)
The generated certificate will be expired after this many days.
.TP
\fBSSL_BITS =\fR \fI"1024"\fR
The number of bits used for the certificate keys.
.TP
\fBSSL_COUNTRY =\fR \fI"US"\fR
The country (code only) for the generated certificate.
.TP
\fBSSL_STATE =\fR \fI"California"\fR
The state (no abbreviation) for the generated certificate.
.TP
\fBSSL_LOCALITY =\fR \fI"Santa Barbara"\fR
The locality (city) name for the generated certificate.
.TP
\fBSSL_ORGANIZATION =\fR \fI"SSL Server"\fR
The organization (business) name for the generated certificate.
.TP
\fBSSL_UNIT =\fR \fI"For Testing Purposes Only"\fR
The organizational unit (department) name for the generated certificate.
.TP
\fBSSL_COMMONNAME =\fR \fI"localhost"\fR
The hostname (FQDN) for the generated certificate.
.TP
\fBSSL_EMAIL =\fR \fI"root@localhost"\fR
The technical contact (email address) for the generated certificate.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B docert \fI<cert1>\fR \fI[cert2 ...]\fR
This function will generate and install the requested certificates into
the current \fB${INSDESTTREE}\fR location. For example:
.br
\fBinsinto\fR \fI/etc/ssl/server\fR
.br
\fBdocert\fR \fImail\fR \fIimap\fR || die "Error creating certificates"
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/ssl-cert.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Max Kalika <max@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/ssl-cert.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
