.TH SUBVERSION.ECLASS 5 "Nov 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" portage
.SH NAME
subversion.eclass \- provides subversion fetching functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsubversion\fR eclass provides functions that enable the ebuild author
to create 'live' ebuilds that fetch the program's sources from a subversion
repository.
.br

\fBNOTE\fR: At the very minimum, the \fBsubversion\fR eclass requires the
\fBESVN_REPO_URI\fR variable to be set (see below).
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B "ESVN_REPO_URI" = \fI"svn://foo/bar/trunk"\fR
This variable sets the URI from which the sources will be fetched.  The
\fBsubversion\fR eclass supports fetching from the following protocols:
\fIhttp\fR, \fIhttps\fR, and \fIsvn\fR.  This variable is required to be set.
.TP
.B "ESVN_STORE_DIR" = \fI"${DISTDIR}/svn-src"\fB
This variable defines the location in which the fetched sources will be kept.
The default value is '${DISTDIR}/svn-src' and should be sufficient in most
cases.
.TP
.B "ESVN_FETCH_CMD" = \fI"svn checkout"\fB
This variable defines the command used for initial checkout and defaults to 'svn checkout'.
.TP
.B "ESVN_UPDATE_CMD" = \fI"svn update"\fB
This variable defines the command used for updating sources and defaults to 'svn update'.
.TP
.B "ESVN_PROJECT" = \fI"foobar"\fB
This variable defines the name of the project and defaults to '${PN/-svn}'.
.TP
.B "ESVN_BOOTSTRAP" = \fI"autogen.sh"\fB
This variable defines the name of the bootstrap script to execute in
preparation for the build process.  This variable is empty by default.  Note:
"./" is automatically prepended, so it is unnecessary for the ebuild author to
do so.
.TP
.B "ESVN_PATCHES" = \fI"foo.patch *.diff"\fB
This variable defines a list of patches to apply prior to fetching the sources.
In addition to literal filenames, you may also use globbing such as *.diff.
This variable is empty by default.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B subversion_src_unpack
The default \fBsrc_unpack\fR provided by the \fBsubversion\fR eclass simply
fetches the program's sources from the URI specified by \fBESVN_REPO_URI\fR,
applies any patches specified by \fBESVN_PATCHES\fR, and then executes the
bootstrap script specified by \fBESVN_BOOTSTRAP\fR.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH FILES
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/subversion.eclass
.SH AUTHORS
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH CVS HEADER
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/subversion.eclass.5,v 1.1.2.3 2005/05/10 11:30:32 swegener Exp $
