.TH TLA.ECLASS 5 "Nov 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" portage
.SH NAME
tla.eclass \- provides generic tla fetching functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtla\fR eclass provides an interface to easily allow ebuild authors to
create 'live' tla ebuilds that fetch their sources from a tla repository.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B ETLA_TLA_CMD = \fI"tla"\fR
Defines tla executable.  Defaults to 'tla'.
.TP
.B ETLA_GET_CMD = \fI"get"\fR
Defines tla get option.  Defaults to 'get'.
.TP
.B ETLA_UPDATE_CMD = \fI"replay"\fR
Defines tla update option.  Defaults to 'replay'.
.TP
.B ETLA_TOP_DIR = \fI"${DISTDIR}/tla-src"\fR
Defines location where fetched sources will be kept.  Defaults to '${DISTDIR}/tla-src'.
.TP
.B ETLA_VERSION = \fI"foo@bar.com--archive-name/category--branch--version"\fR
Defines tla version in the above format.  This variable will be passed as the
argument to a tla subcommand such as get, replay, etc.
.TP
.B ETLA_CACHE_DIR = \fI"${ELTA_VERSION}"\fR
Defines the location where the version shall be cached.  This location is
relative to \fBETLA_TOP_DIR\fR.  Defaults to '\fBETLA_VERSION\fR'.
.TP
.B ETLA_ARCHIVES
Defines a whitespace-delimited list of significant archive URI's.  This variable
should at least include the URI of the archive that the wanted version is stored
in.
.TP
.B ETLA_CLEAN
Defines whether or not to fetch a clean copy of sources if there is already a
working copy available.  If set, the working copy will be removed and a fresh
copy will be fetched.  Otherwise, the working copy will just be updated (via
\fBETLA_UPDATE_CMD\fR).  This variable is unset by default.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B tla_src_unpack
Default src_unpack that fetches the sources and places them in \fB${WORKDIR}\fR/\fB${P}\fR.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH FILES
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/tla.eclass
.SH AUTHORS
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH CVS HEADER
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/tla.eclass.5,v 1.1.2.2 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
