.TH "TOOLCHAIN-FUNCS.ECLASS" "5" "Jun 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
toolchain-funcs.eclass \- functions to get commonly needed info about the 
toolchain (binutils/gcc/glibc/etc...)
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBtoolchain-funcs\fR eclass contains a suite of functions that are 
used to glean information about the toolchain that is used to compile.  
This allows developers to worry about gcc specs rather than figuring 
out how to find the specs in the first place.
.SH "TOOL FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B tc-getAR
Returns the name of the binutils archiver.  Usually 'ar'.
.TP
.B tc-getAS
Returns the name of the assembler.  Usually 'as'.
.TP
.B tc-getBUILD_CC
Returns the name of the compiler for the build system.  
Useful only when you have to compile and run a utility while 
building the package.
.TP
.B tc-getCC
Returns the name of the C compiler binary.  Usually 'gcc'.
.TP
.B tc-getCXX
Returns the name of the C++ compiler binary.  Usually 'g++'.
.TP
.B tc-getF77
Returns the name of the fortran compiler.
.TP
.B tc-getGCJ
Returns the name of the java compiler.  Usually 'gcj'.
.TP
.B tc-getLD
Returns the name of the linker.  Usually 'ld'.
.TP
.B tc-getNM
Returns the name of the symbol/object thingy.  Usually 'nm'.
.TP
.B tc-getRANLIB
Returns the name of the archiver indexer.  Usually 'ranlib'.
.SH "MISC FUNCTIONS"
.TP
\fBtc-arch\fR [\fITARGET\fR]
Echo the portage $ARCH that the current toolchain represents.  
Basically this is a drop-in replacment for $ARCH usage.  If no 
\fITARGET\fR is specified, then CHOST will be used.
.TP
\fBtc-arch-kernel\fR [\fITARGET\fR]
Echo the kernel $ARCH that the current toolchain represents.  If no 
\fITARGET\fR is specified, then CHOST will be used.
.TP
\fBtc-endian\fR [\fITARGET\fR]
Echo 'little' or 'big' based upon what the current toolchain represents.  
If no \fITARGET\fR is specified, then CHOST will be used.
.TP
\fBtc-export\fR <\fBlist of variables\fR>
Quickly export \fBlist of variables\fR to the environment.  Much easier 
than exporting each idividual variable at a time.

For example: \fBtc-export\fR CC CXX AR RANLIB
.TP
.B tc-is-cross-compiler
Return shell true/false based upon whether the current building 
setup is for a cross compiler.
.SH "VERSION FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.B gcc-fullversion
Returns the version as by `$CC -dumpversion`.
.br
GCC \fI2.95.3\fR will return \fI2.95.3\fR
.br
GCC \fI3.2.1\fR will return \fI3.2.1\fR
.TP
.B gcc-version
Returns the version, but only the <major>.<minor>.
.br
GCC \fI2.95\fR.3 will return \fI2.95\fR
.br
GCC \fI3.2\fR.1 will return \fI3.2\fR
.TP
.B gcc-major-version
Returns the Major version.
.br
GCC \fI2\fR.95.3 will return \fI2\fR
.br
GCC \fI3\fR.2.1 will return \fI3\fR
.TP
.B gcc-minor-version
Returns the Minor version.
.br
GCC 2.\fI95\fR.3 will return \fI95\fR
.br
GCC 3.\fI2\fR.1 will return \fI2\fR
.TP
.B gcc-micro-version
Returns the Micro version.
.br
GCC 2.95.\fI3\fR will return \fI3\fR
.br
GCC 3.2.\fI1\fR will return \fI1\fR
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/toolchain-funcs.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/toolchain-funcs.eclass.5,v 1.1.2.2 2005/01/15 00:19:23 vapier Exp $
