.TH VERSIONATOR.ECLASS 5 "Nov 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" portage
.SH NAME
versionator.eclass \- provides functions for easy manipulation of versions
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBversionator\fR eclass provides functions to ease manipulation of
software versions.  The most common use of this eclass is for manipulation of
the \fB${PV}\fR variable (and saving the result in a variable such as
\fB${MY_PV}\fR).
.SH FUNCTIONS
\fBNOTE\fR: the following functions all operate on a version string (denoted
as \fIPV\fR in this manual page), which defaults to \fB${PV}\fR if omitted.
See the eclass for example version strings and their respective results.
.TP
.B get_all_version_components \fI< PV >\fR
Splits PV into its component parts.
.TP
.B get_version_components \fI< PV >\fR
Splits PV into its component parts, ignoring '.', '-', and '_'.
.TP
.B get_major_version \fI< PV >\fR
Retrieves major version from PV.
.TP
.B get_version_component_range \fI[ RANGE ] < PV >\fR
Retrieves a component or range of components, RANGE, from PV.  RANGE may be
a single number for a particular component, a range such as 1-2 for a range
of components, or a range such as 2- for that component and everything after it.
.TP
.B get_after_major_version \fI< PV >\fR
Retrieves everything after the major version and its separator (if present).
.TP
.B replace_version_separator \fI[ N ] [ SEP ] < PV >\fR
Replaces the Nth separator of PV with separator, SEP.  If N is a character
literal (eg. '-'), the first separator of this kind is replaced.
.TP
.B replace_all_version_separators \fI[ SEP ] < PV >\fR
Replaces all version separators in PV with separator, SEP.
.TP
.B delete_version_separator \fI[ N ] < PV >\fR
Deletes the Nth separator of PV.  If N is a character literal (eg. '-'), the first
separator of this kind is deleted.
.TP
.B delete_all_version_separators \fI<PV>\fR
Deletes all version separators in PV.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ebuild (5)
.SH FILES
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/versionator.eclass
.SH AUTHORS
Aaron Walker <ka0ttic@gentoo.org>
.SH CVS HEADER
$Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/versionator.eclass.5,v 1.1.2.4 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
