.TH "VIM.ECLASS" "5" "Jun 2003" "Portage 2.0.51" "portage"
.SH "NAME"
vim.eclass \- common build routines for vim-core, vim and gvim
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvim\fR eclass contains a suite of functions that are used to
build \fBvim-core\fR, \fBvim\fR and \fBgvim\fR.  The vim-core ebuild
contains the common files installed in /usr/share/vim, /usr/share/doc
and /etc/vim, as well as the binaries xxd and vimtutor.  The vim
ebuild contains the terminal-based version of vim.  The gvim ebuild
contains the graphical version of vim.  All three of these are built
from common source, common patches and using mostly-common configure
options.
.P
There are no functions to define in an ebuild using \fBvim.eclass\fR
because the eclass does all the unpacking, compilation and
installation.
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
.B VIM_VERSION = \fI"version string"\fR
This variable is important because the ebuild version (for example
6.2_pre5) corresponds to a vim version (for example 6.2e) but there is
no way to make that jump without help from the ebuild author.
Historically there was a method in the vim.eclass to calculate the vim
version from the ebuild version, but that meant that the ebuild author
had to make sure the ebuild was correctly versioned each time.  To
avoid that headache, it became easier to simply specify
\fBVIM_VERSION\fR in the ebuild itself.
.TP
.B VIM_GENTOO_PATCHES = \fI"filename"\fR
The filename of the Gentoo patches to apply.  It's not always
necessary to update the Gentoo patches for a new version of vim,
so this variable separates the ebuild and vim versions from the patch
tarball version.  Take a look at
\fBvim-6.2.011-gentoo-patches.tar.bz2\fR
for an example of the patch directory layout.
.TP
.B VIM_ORG_PATCHES = \fI"filename"\fR
The filename of the vim patches to apply.  This is a tarball of
patches from \fBftp://ftp.vim.org/pub/vim/patches/\fR which apply to
the current version.  See \fBvim-6.2.011-patches.tar.bz2\fR for an
example of the vim.org patch tarballs.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ebuild (5)
.BR vim (1)
.SH "FILES"
.BR /usr/portage/eclass/vim.eclass
.SH "AUTHORS"
Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org>
.br
Ryan Phillips <rphillips@gentoo.org>
.br
Seemant Kulleen <seemant@gentoo.org>
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Id: /var/cvsroot/gentoo-src/portage/man/vim.eclass.5,v 1.3.2.1 2005/01/15 00:19:36 vapier Exp $
