<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python'>
	<title>EAPI 4-python</title>
	<para>
		Also see the <ulink url="https://people.apache.org/~Arfrever/EAPI_4-python_Specification">official EAPI 4-python Specification</ulink>.
	</para>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-helpers'>
		<title>Helpers</title>
		<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-helpers-dohtml-extended-default-list-of-extensions'>
			<title>Extended default list of extensions in dohtml</title>
			<para>
				dohtml by default additionally installs files with .ico, .svg, .xhtml and .xml extensions.
			</para>
		</section>
		<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-helpers-banned-in-global-scope'>
			<title>Helpers Banned in Global Scope</title>
			<para>
				<itemizedlist>
					<listitem><para>diropts</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>docompress</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>exeopts</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>insopts</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>libopts</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>use</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>use_enable</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>use_with</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>useq</para></listitem>
					<listitem><para>usev</para></listitem>
				</itemizedlist>
			</para>
		</section>
	</section>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-metadata'>
		<title>Metadata</title>
		<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-metadata-package-names-allow-period-characters'>
			<title>Support for Period Characters in Package Names</title>
			<para>
				The "." character is allowed in package names.
			</para>
		</section>
		<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-metadata-use-flags-allow-period-characters'>
			<title>Support for Period Characters in USE Flags</title>
			<para>
				The "." character is allowed in USE flags.
			</para>
		</section>
		<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-metadata-repository-dependencies'>
			<title>Repository Dependencies</title>
			<para>
				Repository dependencies are supported in atoms in DEPEND, PDEPEND and RDEPEND and atoms passed to best_version and has_version functions.
				Repository dependency is specified by two colons followed by repository name.
			</para>
			<table><title>Repository Dependency Examples</title>
				<tgroup cols='1' align='left'>
					<colspec colname='atom'/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Atom</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>dev-lang/python::progress</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>&gt;=dev-lang/python-3.2::progress</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>dev-lang/python:3.2::progress</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>dev-lang/python::progress[xml]</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>dev-lang/python:3.2::progress[xml]</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
	</section>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-globstar'>
		<title>globstar shell option enabled by default</title>
		<para>
			globstar shell option is enabled by default, which enables recursive expansion of ** pattern in pathname expansion context.
		</para>
	</section>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-variables'>
		<title>Variables</title>
		<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-variables-repository'>
			<title>REPOSITORY Variable</title>
			<para>
				The new REPOSITORY variable is set in ebuild environment. This variable contains name of repository, which contains currently used ebuild.
			</para>
		</section>
	</section>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-repo-level-config'>
		<title>Extended Repository-Level Configuration</title>
		<para>
			Repository-level configuration in ${repository_path}/profiles is supported for the following files:
			<itemizedlist>
				<listitem><para>make.defaults</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>package.use</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>package.use.force</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>package.use.mask</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>use.force</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>use.mask</para></listitem>
			</itemizedlist>
		</para>
	</section>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-directories'>
		<title>Directories Allowed for Profile-Level and Repository-Level Configuration</title>
		<para>
			The following files can be directories:
			<itemizedlist>
				<listitem><para>package.mask</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>package.use</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>package.use.force</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>package.use.mask</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>use.force</para></listitem>
				<listitem><para>use.mask</para></listitem>
			</itemizedlist>
		</para>
	</section>
	<section id='package-ebuild-eapi-4-python-use-aliases'>
		<title>USE Flag Aliases</title>
		<para>
			USE flag aliases are supported to allow to satisfy dependencies of packages from other repositories, which require differently named USE flags. USE flag aliases are defined in ${repository_path}/profiles/use.aliases and ${repository_path}/profiles/package.use.aliases files.
		</para>
		<table><title>use.aliases Example</title>
			<tgroup cols='1' align='left'>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>real_flag1 alias1 alias2</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>real_flag2 alias3 alias4</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		<table><title>package.use.aliases Example</title>
			<tgroup cols='1' align='left'>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>category/package1 real_flag1 alias1 alias2</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>category/package1 real_flag2 alias3 alias4</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>=category/package2-1* real_flag3 alias5 alias6</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>=category/package2-2* real_flag4 alias5 alias6</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
	</section>
</section>
